‘ .

The certainty that the island had been visited by pirate ships led to widespread believe in

a hidden treasure. This legend, which inspired stories such as “Treasure Island”, was
for many yéars Cocos 'main. claim to international recognition. Until the first half of this _
century, the hunt for a hidden treasure was the reason for most expeditions to the island.

James Cook; George Williams, John Keating, Henry Morgan, Benito. Bonito among
others are names that give life to the legends surrounding the island. But the hame of |
German Arthur Gissler lingers as a symbol of perseverance. The son of. axrich German
- family, ‘Gissler spent most of his life searching. for the elusive treasure a dying drunken
sailor had mentioned to him ; . .
His quest> ‘began i in 1889 and lasted for almost 20 years. In 1897, he \ was appointed
_ Governor of the Island’ and was granted official permission to hunt-for the famed “Lima
Treasure”: gold and silver negotiable-lingots, as well as gem-encrusted religious objects,
from the Inca and Peruvian crown, all put to sea by the Spanish Church’ in 1821 and
‘buried by the crew of the infamous Mary Dear i ina remote Pacific island before reaching |
Panama.. Could this mysterious island be Cogos? The treasure is said to be worth a billion a
_ dollars‘and to this day kindles the greed and, imagination-of nunterous adventurers. .

’ For his ‘attempt, .Gissler brought ‘with him 13 German families and they tried

, unsuccessfully’ to colonize the island. Both the treasure hunt and the colonization project

* “failed and Gissler had to leave the island empty-handed. This episode enriched - the

national folklore but left coffee plants and other exotic species in the island. °

With a very different purpose in mind, the Costa Rican government sent a new expedition. -
‘to Cocos in 1898; its mission: to evaluate the possibility. of reinstalling a presidium (which
had functioned in Cocos. .for three years since 1874), The expedition, led by naturalists
Anastasio Alfaro and Henri Pittier, turried into a scientific expedition. Upon.artival, the
naturalists reported their findings and discovered the true treasure of the island: its
natural wealth. They vehemently recommended the elimination of the penitentiary
“project. It is thanks to those visionary scientists that the island’ s true treasure could be

__ Preserved fa for future generations. .

,

Cocos Nomination . : . 9 - ” Printed in banana fiber péper .
