6.1 Costa Rica and Cocos Island

?
- .

‘Costa Rica's links to the island go back to 1832, when the government led an expedition

to rescue 13 stranded Chilean citizens. The government took- official’ possession of the

" property in, 1869. Curiously, this action resulted from an application by Englishman

. William Tucker, who was asking for permission to search for a treasure supposedly

hidden in ‘the, island. The permission was granted,’ but Commander Rafael Oreamuno .

- traveled with the expedition, to formally take possession of the island.

- After two unsuccessful. attempts to colonize. the island (the 1874 penitentiary and.

+

Gissler’s treasure hunt), ‘the island, has remained free .of permanent human
intervention, although sailors, fishermen, . whalers, naturalists ‘and others have been
visiting i it with varying regularity: :

In 1978, Cocos was declared a National Park and presently only a handful of park

rangers live in. the island, in order to ensure its protection. Cocos is otherwise deserted.
. : . i : : . 7 a, .

- Photographic and/or cinemafographic ddeumentation

. Under Annex 2 a sample of the more. representative habitats; species arid- landscapes i is

illustrated 1 in photographs, ‘slides and videos. ,
Public awareness -

- Until recently CIMTCA was mostly known as a remote area, an Island clad in mystery,

populated by pirate stories and hosting hidden treasures that many had searched
without luck. Today, thanks to the efforts of several Administrations, the interest of the
Costa Rican civil society (Friends. of the Pacific Islands of Costa Rica, Friends of Cocos
Island Foundation) and: to national and international scientists ‘and non profit

organizations (The Nature Conservancy, The Cousteau. Society), this Conservation _

Area is known to most people as a "natural paradise”. In people’s minds, hammerhead
sharks and “Espiritu Santo” fairy terns have replaced gold coins. The. legends; of course,
persist, but the flora-and fauna of the area’ are now acknowlédged to be the most evident
treasure. present at Cocos. In fact, science-fiction writer Michael Crichton places his
evolutionary thrillers Jurassic Park and The Lost World in Cocos Island.

Cocos Nomination so oe , 10 ' __. Pfinted in banana fiber paper-
