 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
7

Coco's Island, located approximately at 87°03' longitude west and 5°03' latitude north
(532 kms southwest from Cabo Blanco), is an oceanic island with a surface of only 24sq. km.
However, this national park encompasses 972.35 sq. km’ of marine habitats.

Such habitats constitute the main motivation to visit the island. Its underwater views of
abundant and colorful life, temperate water and a normal visibility higher than 25 or 30mts,
make it an international destination spot for scuba divers. The possibility of observing big
marine animals such as hammerhead and white tip sharks at a very close range, which do not
show the aggressiveness normally seen at other regions , is a big attraction. A similar interest
is represented by the potential encounter with a whale shark, a mantha ray, or a group of
dolphins.

This is not, however, the only characteristic that distinguishes Coco's Island. Historically, it
offers a rich panorama of pirate stories, hidden treasures and men who dedicated their lives to
the unsuccessful search of such mythical treasures. The numerous inscriptions found in the
island are testimony of its role as a strategic point for refuge and fresh water during the XVII
century. Its toponymy also makes reference to the many adventurers who in past times
approached it. The coffee shrubs and the avocado trees planted by Augusto Fissler are
symbols of the first colonizing effort that took place in the island. Fragments of baked clay
that remind us of the island's role as a prison can still be observed in Punta Presidio.

It has, in addition, five endemic vertebrae species that give it a unique value: the anolis
lizard (Norops townsendii, Iguanidae), the gecko ( Sphaerodactylus pacificus, Gekkonidae),
the Cocos Cuckoo (Coccyzus ferrugineus, Cuculidae), the Cocos Flycatcher (Nezotriccus
Ridgwayi, Tyrannidae) and the Cocos Finch (Pinaroloxias inornata, Emberizidae). There is
also a substantial number of sea birds that nest in the surrounding smaller islands.

As in other oceanic islands, Coco's Island is characterized by an empoverished flora if
compared to that of the continent, but a high percentage of the existing species are endemic.
The most common plants are the "palo de hierro" (Sacoglotis holdriedgei Humiricaceae) and
the "aguacaton" (Ocotea ira, Lauracea). The cyperacea Hypolitum amplum and other
species of ferns dominate in the undergrowth, especially the "arboreal".

The fish communities are very diverse and have great biological and scientific importance.
Some of the most extensive and richest reefs of the West Pacific are found here, and it is a
reunion site for pelagic and reef fauna. It is also the first land point of the American Pacific
reached by the Northecuatorial Countercurrent. Furthermore, it is possible for the Island to be
the distribution center of organisms to other regions such as the Galapagos Islands and the
coasts of America.

Although no substantial damage caused by recreational diving has been yet detected, the
necessary measurements must be adopted specially in view of the possible increase in the
