Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT

number of visitors. Fish resources seem to be abundant, but its total biomass could be limited
because it is concentrated on a small area which precisely coincides with an area of tourist
attraction. The coral reefs show signs of recovery from the phenomenon of "El Nifio" of
1982-83. However, the intense bioeroding process carried out by urchins is evident. In some
locations, such as Bahia Chatham, coral colonies break easily. An increase of divers will
convey a higher possibility of destruction of the reef. Similar protection is required by Punta
Presidio and Bahia Iglesias.

From the stand point of land conservation, the main activity to be carried out is the
elimination of pigs as well as those plants such as coffee, “achiote”, mango, and other
species. The access of tourists must be restricted, especially in those sensitive areas, or
undisturbed communities such as Cerro Iglesias.

From a socioeconomic perspective, Coco's Island is pressed by the fishing and tourism
sectors. Concerning the former, there are no records or specific studies that quantify its real
impact. At most, there is a record of the embarkation observed in the area, but without any
information concerning quantity and species captured. In order to control this activity, it is
imperative to regulate the catch in the buffer zone. This will guarantee a sustainable
exploitation of the resource. Concerning tourism on land, it is not very probable to surpass
the impact caused before: human presence goes back to two centuries, hunting of endemic
species does not exist, and the areas deforested by colonizing pioneers are in process of
recovery. The opposite occurs concerning marine habitats where the increase of divers, tourist
operators and those interested in recreational fishing is on the rise. There has been an increase
of visitors of 260% from 1985 to 1993, and this is expected to rise in the next years. An
increment in recreational fishing is also expected (sail fish, marlin, shark) which makes it
necessary to establish specific guidelines to control this activity in areas close to the Island,
that must work as buffer zones.

This Management Plan addresses the planning of public use in the Island. In general terms,
it proposes to provide a continuous follow up to the patterns of increase of touristic activity,
to protect, as a whole, the insular platform, to protect sensitive areas, to eliminate exotic
species, to provide an adequate handling of fish resources, to promote scientific research on
the Island, and to review in an integral way the legal aspects promulgated by the executive
decree. Finally, it is proposed that the stretch of 7.2 kms between the ring of absolute
protection (15kms) and the limit of the 22.2 kms that constitute the territorial ocean be
considered as a buffer area for the park.

A summary of the main problems detected at the Coco's Island National Park (CINP)
follows. These are to be corrected by the actions proposed in this General Management Plan.
