/ __ Awareness of the island’s natyral lore has also been’fed by accounts and testimonies of
ee . thousands of visitors, mainly sports divers, scientists and underwater photographers,
+ | who have been coming over the last decade, seeking for thrilling éncounters with the _
“unique and superbly abundant populations of sharks, tunas and schools of, other large
_ pelagic animals or to photograph friendly manta rays and whale sharks. °

Although more clearly relevant. today, it should not be, forgotten that the sailors of the -
“XVII century already regarded the Island as a natural paradise, for it was one of the few
water stops available in the South Easf@rn Pacific. *- : co °
' Asa result of the recent efforts conducted towards the conservation ‘of this Conservation —
Area and of the interest generatéd in many international visitors and/or organizations,
several underwater videos have made their way to world television (i.¢. ‘the Cousteau
Society's work).’ Thousands of photographs now circle the world, making the
hammerhead schools a trademark for this Conservation Area. Several books about the —
-Island are also available and keep. raising the public’s interest.

. - Material ‘printed and produced by the Costa Rican goverment, with the support of

- countries committed to nature ‘conservation such’ as The Netherlands, is included in

Le a Annex 3 of this proposal. These posters, brochures, calendars and photographs were

. . _ generated with educational and promotional purposes and are destined to raise. public:
+ awareness about Cocos Island’s natural treasures. ,

A preliminary exploration of. Net sites shows the recent creation of'a . Cocos ‘Island

- HomePage, where information regarding several topics’ of this Conservation Area can-be

+ obtained. Created by independent foreign parties, not related to any governmental effort,

7 this example illustrates the kind ‘of i interest and awareness raised by the area.
. - _ Another example of public international interest can be’ extracted from communications:
_ . received through the Net (complete texts in Annex 3).

"Over.a period of seven years we have sent ‘several hundred divers to Cocos. Without

exception they have praised it as one of the unique marine sites. of the world. It is the
. ultimate place for divers-to see pelagic species in the wild state: As such it is a treasure
beyond description. Its loss would be a mayor tragedy. :

Soa - Car] Roessler.

1 . . co ~ Sea and Travel Inc."
, - * California, USA.

_ Cocos Nomination ~ . 11 . Printed in banana fiber paper

- . »

 

 
