Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT

I, Presentation

The General Management Plan (GMP) of Coco's Island National Park (CINP) stems
out of a request by the Costa Rican Institute of Tourism (ICT) to prepare a GMP and load
capability studies in different wilderness areas of the country.

The objective of such plan is, precisely, to identify general guidelines which given the
constant pressure for use coming from tourism, may give the basis to the Service of National
Parks Service Office (SPN) to adequately administer their protected areas.

Under this view, and with the goal of providing a solution in the shortest possible
term, Fundevi, the University of Costa Rica Foundation for Research, through ProAmbi, the
Program of Environmental Studies recommended as the best cost-benefit option, the
realization of a Rapid Ecological Survey (RES). This procedure represents a way to
approximate load capabilities.

It is important to point out that as a way to verify the fulfillment of the GMP,
monitoring must be given special importance. Especially under the notion that it, more than an
instrument for specific planning, must be understood as a tool for global planning.

This GMP is detailed in four volumes. The first volume, the General Management
Plan includes a summary of the biophysical and socioeconomic aspects of the area in question
(present situation), and the action guidelines and activities that the various programs must
execute (Programs for the Planning of the Area). The second volume, "Annex 1" or "Rapid
Ecological Survey" includes all the information gathered by each specialist. The third volume,
"Annex 2" or "Elementos Strategic Planning", includes the process of strength analysis,
opportunities, weaknesses and threats of the system.
The last volume, "Annex 3" or "Results of the Validation Workshop", includes the comments
presented in such activity, as well as the prioritization of Programs, Subprograms, Guidelines
and Activities.

II. Objectives of the General Management Plan

The main objective of the GMP for the protected area is to achieve the sustainable
handling of the natural resources of such region, through the interpretation, environmental
education, research, recreation, and community outreach. The adequate combination of these
elements must provide a structured direction for the conservation and handling. Ideally, a
handling plan must integrate the area in question within the reach of the conservation national
strategy, and within the social, economic, and ecological context of the area.
