 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT

TIE. Methodology

This process is based on the terms of reference provided by the Costa Rican Institute

of Tourism and includes:

1.

A revision of the existing literature dealing with previous studies, previous management
plans and any other pertinent information, such as vegetation coverage, or lists of flora
and fauna species.

Holding meetings with the park staff (including administrators and park rangers), to
know about their questions and needs, as well as the practical aspects of managing the
area in question.

Utilization of the Rapid Ecological Survey (RES) which allows in a short time, to reach
a knowledge of the present state of the biophysical resources. Since this is a critical zone,
the RES concentrates on the area of public use.

Concurrent to the biophysical evaluations, there will be an analytical process of
strengths, Opportunities, Weaknesses, and Threats (FODA) of the system. This
analysis integrates judgment elements provided by the area specialists and by staff from
Fundevi, the University of Costa Rica Foundation for Research. The Elements of
Strategic Planning stem out of this process.

Preparation of the "Proposal of the General Management Plan" (PGMP), with the
analysis of all available information. This document is individually studied by all the
participating parties. Together with this proposal, an Annex is produced where all the
grounding fieldwork information is included.

After reviewing these documents, they are analyzed and the suggestions presented by the
involved parties are included (i.e. from the protected area, from the Service of National
Park, from the Costa Rican Institute of Tourism, from NGO's).

The Service of National Parks, as a supplementary activity, will carry out workshops
with the personnel from the protected area with the purpose of defining the Image and
Objectives corresponding to this area. These results will be later on used as bases to
carry out the prioritization of Programs in a subsequent workshop.

The next step is a Validation Workshop. The first objective of this activity is to
promote the discussion and to validate the reach of the PGMP.
