Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
2B

The second, and perhaps most important, consists in determining the priorities of the
programs,subprograms, action guidelines and activities, and, based on the real
operational capacity of the area, prepare an activity timetable. This activity is carried out
in groups formed by members of the Service of National Parks headquarters, from the
protected area, from the CANATUR, the Costa Rican Institute of Tourism, nearby
communities, and from FUNDEVI as facilitators of the process. The interaction of
parties taking into account interests, capabilities, and realities (political, social, economic,
and environmental) of each area, allows to set up the priorities and the objectives
timetable of the PGMP.

9. Production of the GMP of the area. This document has a five year term, with activities
programmed on a semester basis.

10. The Annual Operational Plans (AOP) are produced by the Service of National Parks
based on the GMP. The AOP encompass the different Programs, Subprograms, Action
Guidelines and Activities included in the GMP.

11. By Meeting the activities timetable and the presentation and verification of fulfillment of
the corresponding operational Plans, which is in reality the implementation of a
monitoring process, a closer approach towards sustainable development schemes and
biodiversity conservation is expected.

IV. The Planning Process

Planning responds to a society's need, and as such, it must reflect its values, wants, and
needs. The recognition of the interdependence among the natural resources and the society,
must establish a relationship among the area administrators, the visitors, and the settlers
of the region that must promote conservation -in the long term- of the resources of the area.
The integration of these three elements can be achieved through the planning of the use of the
Protected Wilderness Areas (PWA), abiding by the legal mandate of the National Parks
Service (NPS).

Planning is a tool used to maximally reduce the uncertainties generated by the analysis
and the selection of the different possible alternatives for the management of a protected zone.
Given the intrinsic complexity of the natural systems, a simple, clear and logical planning
process, will produce better responses to be incorporated within the decision making process.
The objectives must be clearly defined, the information provided for the alternatives must be
as complete as possible, and the structure of the planning model must be dynamic, in such a
way as to be adaptable to the natural changes of the area. Thus, the process will lead towards
the reduction of the reduction of risk and uncertainty that comes with the decision to be taken
regarding the management of the protected area.
