Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT

The theoretical Framework (present situation) allows for a general immersion within the
historical, social and environmental realities of the Protected Area. The Technical Component
includes the Programs and Subprograms, the latter are divided in Action Guidelines that
would be implemented upon the execution of the detailed activities. The operational
component consists on the implementation of the AOP and of the identified monitoring
programs.

The present document contains the basic elements for the development and execution of
an integral GMP. This is the product of the analysis of previous Management Plans, Annual
Operational Plans and the analysis and interpretation of the information obtained in field work
by the different specialists of FUNDEVI-PROAMBL It contains 4 Programs subdivided into
Subprograms, Action Guidelines, and Activities.

The Administrative Program is the coordinating program, and it leads towards the
achievement of an efficient administration of the area and of the other programs by means of
adequate planning and the choosing of the best alternative uses of the existing resources at the
CINP.

The Research Program attempts to generate information on the state of the resources
(natural and cultural) and, based on this knowledge, evaluate, in the short and long term,
possible changes associated to the different activities carried out at the park.

The Public Use Program attempts to orient the visitor concerning the natural and
cultural phenomena that take place in the area and instructs him/her towards an adequate use
of the recreational resource. In addition, it procures to satisfy the tourists’ expectations by
improving services (paths, infrastructure) existing in the area, and by regulating visitation
(quantity and performance) in order to reduce any impact that this may cause.

The Protection and Surveillance Program attempts to implement the necessary
measures to guarantee, not only the protection of the resources existing in the area but also
the safety of those who visit it or work there.

The definitive GMP will be made up by those actions put into practice through
Operational Annual Plans (OAP's), or other shorter term plans. The decision of putting into
practice the proposals presented hereafter should be a consensual decision that would include
representatives form the NPS, the Costa Rican Institute of Tourism (ICT), the communities
of the areas of influence of the protected area, other government entities, the private sector
and NGO's related to the protected area.
