 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
17

A. Mission and Objectives Within the Planning Process of the Protected Wilderness
Areas of Costa Rica”.

Concerning the specific case of the planning process that is presently implemented in the
Wilderness Areas administered by the National Parks Service, which is carried out through the
University of Costa Rica in its capacity as advisor and by the Costa Rican Institute of Tourism
as financing entity, it has been determined that the mission and the objectives are fundamental
components of the methodological structure proposed.

The mission is the main intake of the process, it constitutes the initial step, determines de
purposes of the Protected Areas and, at the same time, provides a referential framework that
will control possible organizational changes. It answers questions like: Why does a Protected
Area exist?, Who benefits from a Protected Area?, What does a Protected Area give the
country? By answering these questions, Protected Areas are defined as well as the reasons for
their existence.

B. Mission and Objectives of Coco's Island National Park

General Objectives:

a) To keep and preserve the biological diversity of the area, perpetuating in this way, the
ecological processes that characterize it.

b) To establish the necessary cooperation mechanisms to attract the resources that guarantee
the management of the area.

c) To promote alternatives of sustainable development that enhance participation
opportunities to the beneficiaries of the area.

d) To ascertain national sovereignty of the Exclusive Economic Zone (EEZ) around Coco's
Island National Park, to guarantee the sustainable use of the marine resources.

Specific Objectives:

1. To prepare a strategy so as to allow the Island t ohave, in a short term, the financial and
technical resources necessary for its operation.

2. To implement the Coco's Island General Management Plan. Update it periodically.
3. To train the park's personnel to achieve a better performance in their jobs

4. To gradually reduce the populations of species introduced to the Island.

Ssgummary of a document prepared by Ing. William Alpizar and Lic.
Rafael Gutierrez. National Parks Service.
