Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
20

A. Socio-economic Aspects

From the socio-economic perspective, Coco's Island suffers pressures from the fishing
and tourism sectors. However, it is difficult to ascertain the existing links between the social
condition of coastal communities and the pressure they exercise on the resources of Coco's
Island National Park.

Due to the geographical position of the Island, its management is affected both by
determinants that go beyond the Costa Rican economy and society (the Island allows the
arrival of ships and visitors from many different countries), as well as by local elements. The
majority of the embarkation’s that visit Coco's Island National Park come from Puntarenas,
and sporadically from Quepos, Coco Beach, and Golfito.

The socio-economic situation of these communities show indicators below the national
average (Ministry of Economy and Commerce/Ministry of Labor, 1992). In general its socio-
economic characteristics are the following: a reduced physical and spatial integration, and a
weak participation on the national economy, unequal development and wealth distribution,
dominance of activities from the primary sector, illiteracy rates higher that national average,
lower employment and salary levels, lack of housing and prevalence of bad condition housing,
health indexes below national average, and poor schooling levels (Ministry of Planning
(MIDEPLAN), 1990a, 1990b, and 1990c).

The high rate of sub-employment and the high unemployment (Ministry of
Commerce/Ministry of Labor, 1992) causes the migration of labor force in search of better
job opportunities and an early incorporation of the population into the job markets . This
situation is reflected in the high drop-out rate experienced in the majority of the coastal
suburban and rural populations beginning at the initial stages of the formal education. Thus,
poor labor quality stems out of this situation. All these elements cause social instability and
allow to identify the factors that provoke the interest of these economic agents in the
exploitation of the resources at CINP.

It must be added that the alternative of combining agriculture with fishing has historically
characterized the fishing sub-sector as most vulnerable and dependent. This due to the fact
that many agricultural workers in the studied populations may be forced to fish in order to
make a living. Especially during the long periods when jobs are scarce. In addition, the
majority of the fishermen as a whole, do not have adequate equipment to efficiently exploit
the marine resources.

An evaluation made by the Direction of Fishing and Aquaculture from the Ministery of
Agriculture, establishes that 97.5% of the national fishing fleet is made up by artisanal
embarkation’s and the 89.7% hardly has an autonomy between small and medium (Ministry
of Agriculture, 1994)
