 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
21

In spite of this last circumstance, the disproportionate growth of fishermen has generated
an uncontrolled competition, more than anything among artisanal and semi-industrial'*, to the
extent that the resources which are the focus of their economic activity have considerably
diminished at the traditional fishing sites’.

This situation has determined that during some times of the year, fishermen search for
more afar regions to carry out their captures. This is one of the aspects that provokes the
visitation to Coco's Island National Park, especially in search of some species of sharks
because some parts, mainly the wing and cartilage are highly appreciated in international
markets ”.

“the Direction of Fishing and Aquaculture from the Ministery of
Agriculture defines the following kinds of fleets: Manual Artisanal
Fishing; Small Scale Artisanal Fishing Fleet, Medium Scale Artisanal
Fishing fleet, Advanced Scale Artisanal Fishing Fleet, Semi-industrial or
Shrimp Specific Fishing Fleet, Industrial or Tuna-Sardine Specific Fishing
Fleet, Planting Zone Fishing Fleet, and Fishing Fleet made up by
unidentified embarkations. To see additional details for each of these
types please see Mag, 1991.

“Por the exploitation of fishing resources, Costa Rica has an
Exclusive Economic Zone of 200 maritime miles. This allows to assume the
existence of a marine area of approximately 585,000 sq. kms. At the
Pacific litoral, this is an area of 560,000sq. kms and has been divided in
four fishing zones to quantify captures made by artisanal embarkations:
Guanacaste Coast (from the Nicaraguan border up to Cabo Blanco); Golfo de
Nicoya (between Cabo Blanco and Punta Judas), Central Pacific (Between
Punta Judas and Punta Llorona) and South Pacific (from Punta Llorona up to
the Panamanian border).

In order to quantify the captures made by the other types that make
up the fishing fleet in the Pacific, three regions were zonated: Region 1,
known as Costa Guanacasteca (it extends from the Nicaraguna border up to
Cabo Blanco), Region 2, known as the Interior del Golfo de Nicoya (extends
from the line drawn at the dock of Puntarenas, the oriental area of the
Negritos islands and Punta Gigante, up to the line that joins Cabo Blanco
and Punta Judas), and REgion 3, known as Pacific Central and South Region
(extends from Punta Judas up to the Panamanian border).

at the present time there are seven companies dedicated to the
commercialization of shark by-products in international markets. According
to information provided by the Centro de Promocién de las Exportaciones y
las Inversiones (Cenpro), these companies are: Coexpo S.A., Carnes y
Fibras del Mar S.A., Productor del Mar Tico S.A., Exportibun S.A., Pesca
Palmares S.A., Industrias Martec S.A., Maxmer 8.A., Premar S.A., and Expun
S.A. Mr. Luis Chen Mok also appears as registered exporter of shark wings
to Hong-Kong.
