Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
22

In the opinion of officers and the director of the CINP, the reduction is basically due to
the disappearance, mainly around the Island, of big cardumens of the species searched by
fishermen, and specially, to the reduction in the shark population.

At the present time, the embarkation’s that approach the CINP are relatively small
(between 45-50 feet) with a crew of about four to six people. This, however, does not mean
that there are no problems coming from illegal fishing in the Island.

According to our informants, fishermen (who come in search of sharks and an endemic
species of cabrilla) not only do fish illegally but also dump waste on the sea bottom, specially
in Bahia Chatham. Generally these semi-industrial fishermen trespass the park limits, but they
hide in places where rangers cannot see them either because the surveillance boat does not
reach that distance, or because bad weather impedes an adequate control.

Tourist operators present a lesser impact since there is more control on their activities.
At present, two ships that have their operation centers in Puntarenas visit the Island. These
companies transport approximately 35 visitors every three weeks.

In summary, the factors that affect the CINP the most come from the characteristics of
the fishing sub-sector, specially the one located in Puntarenas. In view of the characteristics
of this particular group, the pressure on the resources of the CINP will continue to exist.

B. NATURAL RESOURCES
B.1 GEOLOGY, HYDROLOGY, CLIMATE AND SOILS

Coco's Island National Park constitutes the territorial portion most far away from the
Costa Rican continental land. Its terrain that covers 24,000 has is of eruptive and intrusive
volcanic origin. Basalt rock and breaches tobaceas are affected by traquiticas intrusions,
whose age goes from the Pioceno to the Mid Pleistoceno. Though there are sharp areas such
Cerro Iglesias, the volcanic morphology is best represented by the relives developed from
lavic effusions rather than from the volcanic structures where these lavic effusions come
from.

With and abundant precipitation superior to 7,000 annual millimeters, the park shows a
dense green coverage in its dosel. In spite of this, the undergrowth relief shows a high natural
erodability, accented at the level of superficial horizons of the soil by the activity of porcine
cattle introduced in the Island.

The natural conditions of the ecosystem, emerged spaces and littoral and marine domain,
tend to a state of very fragile equilibrium susceptible to modifications introduced by climatic
arrhythmic disturbances (such as the Niiio) and those that can be caused by the economic
exploitation of the park resources.
