 

 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
23

The path system shows a weak load capacity during the rainy season because of various
factors: oversaturation of edafologicos horizons of the entisoles very acidic soils of the
Island, slopes that frequently surpass 35%, the trampling from porcine cattle and the textural
composition of the soils.

B.2 VEGETATION

As other oceanic islands, Coco's Island is characterized by an empoverished flora with
respect to that of the continent, but a high percentage of these species are endemic.

The most common plants are the "palo de hierro" (Sacoglotis holdriedgei Humiricaceae)
and the "aguacaton" (Ocotea ira, Lauracea). The cyperacea Hypolitum amplum and other
species of ferns dominate in the undergrowth, especially the "arboreal".

The communities in a better state of conservation are located in the high regions of the
Island, in some of these regions the effect of feral pigs is still not noticed, however, the rest of
the Island shows a lot of alteration.

B.3 FAUNA

The diversity of the wild fauna of the CINP is low as it is to be expected from a small and
far away from the continent oceanic island. However, the Island has five endemic vertebrae
species: the anolis lizard (Norops townsendii, Iguanidae), the gecko ( Sphaerodactylus
pacificus, Gekkonidae), the Cocos Cuckoo (Coccyzus ferrugineus, Cuculidae), the Cocos
Flycatcher (Nezotriccus Ridgwayi, Tyrannidae) and the Cocos Finch (Pinaroloxias inornata,
Emberizidae). These five species give the Island a value which is unique in the world, thus
making its conservation imperative. There is also a substantial number of sea birds some of
which nest in the Island or in the surrounding smaller islands. This is the only place in Costa
Rica where several species such as the "palomita del Espiritu Santo" (Gygis alba, Laridae) and
the "Tijereta de mar" (Fregata minor, Fregatidae) co-occur.

At least it can be noted that the wild fauna of the Island is in good poblational terms,
specially endemic species which are very abundant. However, it must be mentioned that at
the Cerro Iglesias path there is a colony of anidation of "tijereta de mar" (Fragata minor,
Fregatidae) and of "piqueros de patas rojas" (Susa sula, Sulidae) which reproduction could be
disturbed by the presence of tourists.

On the other hand, a possible threat for native fauna is introduced fauna. Of the latter,
the most impact is caused by the domestic hog (Sus scrofa, Suidae) that causes direct damage
(depredation) and indirect damage (damage to the habitat). Since there is no information
concerning the condition of native fauna from two hundred years ago, it is difficult to foresee
the evolutional-ecological effect that exotic species could have on them.
