Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
24

B.3.1 The Pig Population (Sus scrofa, Suidae)

The Island pig population is a controversial matter: the densities range between 4 (the
maximum number observed at a path is more than 4,000). According to the park's Director
Mr. Joaquin Alvarado, there is not an estimate concerning the size of the population, and all
the existing reports and the figures included are based on intuition. The staff does not dare
giving an opinion conceming the number of pigs that exist in the Island. However,
independently from the number, this is a population that is damaging the environment

On the other hand, at the present time the only control that exists concerning the pig
population is the hunting carried out by the park's staff. At the moment of applying control
measures, it is important to take into account that pig births happen specially between
December and January. It is at this time when animals can be seen together; the rest of the
time pigs are spotted alone. Mr. Joaquin Alvarado also thinks that the home domain of each
individual is very large (i.e. they move from Bahia Wafer up to Bahia Chatham). This last
point stresses the idea that the total number of individuals is not as high as some researchers
may think. Rather, the displacement area and the damage caused by each individual is big. The
home domain of this species in some areas in New Zealand is of 28-210 has. Extrapolating
this information, it could be estimated that the population at Coco's Island is less than 100 pigs
(assuming there is no overlapping of home domain, which is not true). This implies that the
number of pigs that could "fit" in the Island would be bigger, although not much bigger, as it
has been mentioned. On the other hand, the maximum density of pigs in one area of New
Zealand was that of 43 individuals per sq. km. Again extrapolating this information, a
population of 1,032 pigs is obtained which is very close to our estimates (1,333 individuals).
The area where this study is being carried out in New Zealand presented a very good
coverage condition, water, and food for the pigs. These data is also comparable to that
obtained from studies in the Galapagos Islands where a density population of 20-74
individuals per sq. km. was estimated. Extrapolating this to Coco's Island, a maximum value
of 1,776 pigs would be reached in the best of the cases. It has to be taken into account that
some regions of the Island present lower densities (areas surrounding Bahia de Wafer) or no
pigs exist at all (high region of Cerro Iglesias).

In the Annex (Rapid Ecological Survey for Coco's Island) two of the proposals are
included (Feral Pig Erradication Options for Coco's Island and Elimination of Feral Pigs of
Coco's Island, by Bernie R. Tershy and William G. Eberhard, respectively) which have had
more acceptance as viable methods to solve the pig problem.

B.4 Marine-Coastal Environments

Some of the most extensive and richest in species reefs of the Oriental Pacific grow at
Coco's Island; it is a meeting place for pelagic animals (open sea) and of reef animals (coastal

 
