Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
25

waters) and constitutes, in addition, the first terrestrial point of the American Pacific that is
reached by the Northecuatorial Countercurrent. This current transports waters and
organisms from the opposite side of the Pacific up to the coasts of America (after covering a
distance close to 5,000 km one of the largest breaches of deep waters in the entire planet.
Thus, Coco's Island acts as the first colonizing point of larvae that have traveled through the
Pacific.

An important percentage of the Island marine fauna, has direct relationship to the marine
fauna of the Central and Occidental Pacific, and in some cases, even related to species from
the Indic and Red Seas. It is probably, then, that the Island is a distribution center of
organisms for other islands in the region, as the Galapagos and the coasts of America.

An analysis of the vast literature that exists about the Island, leaves no doubt that we are
just beginning to know the details of its rich marine fauna: before the 80's there were only
about 100 species of mollusks known in the Island; at the present time, more than 500 are
known and the research is still undergoing.

The Nifio 1982/83 phenomenon seriously affected the coral reefs on the Island (about
90% of the coral died), but not the animals that affect coral, such as corallivorous species
Acanthaster planci (sea star), Arothron meleagris ("pez timboril"), and the bioeroder urchins
Diadema mexicanum and Eucidaris thouarsii. A decade after, we see signs of a healthy
recovery in the reefs: the coverage percentage of live coral has reached value up to 32%
(Punta Maria reef contains the highest percentage of live coral) and the big majority of
coralline colonies presented new growth borders. However, equally evident is the intense
bioerosion process that is carried out by urchins: in some sites such as Bahia Chatham, the
foundations of coral have been weakened so that massive coral break easily. If the number of
divers increase in this region there will also be an increase of the probabilities for destruction
of the reef. An equal protection is required by Punta Presidio and Bahia Iglesias. The first for
being one of the richest areas in coral species; the second because is the home of the biggest
populations of rammified coral which will become coral sources for the rest of the Island. In
addition, these species require special protection because they are most desirable to coral
pouchers.

Though the process of recovery is rapid, it will not be only until 50 or 100 years when
the diversity would be recovered, as well as the life coral coverage and the structural growth
that existed before El Nifio 1982/83, only if no other natural or anthropogenic phenomenon
affects the system.

On the other hand, it is important to mention that during the rainy season the two main
bays of the Island, Chatham and Wafer, are subject to high sedimentation rates. It is necessary
to look for the causes of this event and determine if it is recent or not. Should this continue to
increase, it could start affecting nearby reefs. Likewise, it is probable that this sedimentation
has something to do with the absence of recovery detected in the corals of Cabo Atrevido.
