Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
26

The majority of the areas for commercial diving are separated from the Island and are
characterized by bottoms covered by balanids, algae and some coral. Tourists become
interested on big animals especially, such as manthas and sharks. The survey made did not
yield evidence that tourists or tourist operators were causing any damage. Even the fish seem
not to be bothered by the divers presence.

Anchorage areas used by the majority of the embarkation’s (Bahia de Chatham, Wafer
and Iglesias) are adequate. It is necessary though to install buoys so the ships would not have
to use their ankers. :

In general, human activity at Coco's Island is reduced and seems not to be affecting the
marine habitats significantly. However, long term research projects at Punta Pacheco, Bahia
Chatham, Bahia Presidio and at the Wafer reef are in progress in order to carry out
comparisons through time and detect, in this way, changes in the communities.

B.4.1 Fish

Apparently, the majority of the fish concentrates on the area adjacent to the Island,
specially where there are rocky or coral reefs and smaller islands. The amount of fish per area
unit can be very large. Conservative estimates yet to be validated using other methods, allow
to estimate densities that range between 1,500 and 24,000 individuals per sq. km. depending
on the region. However, the available habitat for fish is reduced frequently being just a narrow
stretch of no more than 400 or 500 mts wide around the Island. This means that almost the
entire habitat able to keep high population densities occupies a total area of 10 to 12 sq. km,
no more than half the surface of the Island. Thus, the huge amount of fish frequently
mentioned is just an appearance stemming from the observations of fish concentrated in a
small area. This has important consequences for sharks, hammer head sharks, rays, and other
related species, which are the main attraction for divers visiting the Island. The fact that they
are physically big and are usually observed in groups may lead to the idea that they are also
numerous. However, none of these species represents more than 5% of the total of counted
fish. In addition, they have been found only in some sites, apparently under very specific
conditions which lead to think that the size of their populations is small.

An excessive invasion of boats, divers, and specially commercial fishing would cause
disturbances in the behavior or sharks and hammer heads, which are sensitive to damage in
their habits. This species are often captured as accompanying fauna of some pelagic species
(sometimes are also "white" species) commercially exploited, such as sail fish, marlin, dolphin
fish, and tuna among others. It is not precisely known how much influence the Island
productivity processes have on the maintenance of the populations of big pelagic fish. At any
rate, these populations would be very small so as to support a fishing exploitation within the
area of influence of the Island. To impede the operation of embarkation’s on the continental
