 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
7

platform of the Island or on its area of influence "would decentralize" the fishing effort
currently taking place in that region, and with that, the capture and mortality due to fishing
would be reduced.

In some diving spots two main types of habitats can be distinguished:

A. Deep water locations with sea beds normally exceeding depths of 20 or 25 m, usually close
to cliffs and especially around the smaller islands. These are the areas that attract SCUBA
divers the most because of the presence of sharks, rays, hammerhead sharks, dolphins and big
pelagic or semipelagic fish banks, such as those of the Carangidae family. There have been
frequent reports of white tip sharks showing a courting behavior. However, since all the
individuals of this species, as well as the hammerhead shark, appear in sizes bigger than a
meter, it is improbable that the Island be a birth site and subsequent recruitment place. An
interesting aspect is the presence of several "cleaning" fish species which ingest ectoparasites
from the gills and the buccal cavity of bigger fish. They are the juvenile of different families
that meet at the same place, and at times , even in the same fish. The western and northern
banks of the Isla Manuelita, are very representative of this type of habitat, as well as Roca
Bote, Isla Pajaro, and to a lesser extent, part of Isla Cénica.

B. Shallower areas can be found at depths between 6 and 20 mts where the ocean bottom
shows a great coral coverage. The most representative site is the marginal reef at Punta
Mary. In the same category are Punta Ulloa, part of Isla Manuelita in its oriental margin, and
part of Cabo Atrevido. The icthyofauna is typical of coral reefs, with a higher number of
species, and often, in higher densities. With few exceptions, almost no sharks or rays were
observed. These sites are less visited and are not usually included in programs of recreational
diving by tourist operators visiting the Island. This is because the typical visitor that uses the
services is an experienced diver who has visited other coral reefs in other parts of the world
and whose motivation for diving at Coco's Island is the expectation of observing sharks, rays,
and dolphins (M. Arroyo pers. comm.) A very singular aspect of these places is the presence
of huge interspecific banks in which two, three, or four species sharing similar coloration
patterns meet. The icthyofauna on these reefs may not be as diverse as in other continental
sites i.e. Isla del Cafio or on some Caribbean reefs. However, this site exhibits a higher
endemic species occurrence as well as species that belong to typical groups of the Indo-Pacific
and whose existence in the Oriental Pacific is known only at Coco's Island reefs and adjacent
areas, which grants them a great biological and scientific importance.

Each type of habitat is sensitive to different kinds of damage or disturbances. In those
of A type, the problems would emerge if many groups of divers simultaneously arrive to the
same place so that their presence and the noise from the engines affect the behavior of sharks,
rays and dolphins eventually scaring them away. In type B sites, the sensitivity consists on the
