Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
29

D. Archeology

Up to the moment there has not been evidence to show that Coco's Island had been
occupied during Precolumbian times. However, it is known that since the beginnings of the
colonial times, this space served as a supply and shelter point to the different ships. It has in
addition been the source of legends of pirates and hidden treasures.

It has not been fully determined who were the first people to visit the Island, if it was the
Spaniards or the British, but there are indeed references that by 1546 trees brought from Peru
were being planted and that there was a recommendation to take cattle (cows and pigs) to the
Island.

Within the expeditions worth mentioning, there is the one carried out in 1683 by John
Cook, who had among his officers, William Dampier and Lionel Wafer. That is how the
names Cabo Dampier and Bahia Wafer came to be. Bahia Chatham owes its name to a ship
that arrived in 1795.

On the other hand, it is thought that the first pigs and goats were left in the Island around
1793 when Colnett, a British sailor, arrived on a whole fishing ship.

As it was mentioned before, one of the biggest attractions of the Island, from the
historical and cultural point of view has to do with the legends of pirates that visited the Island
and the treasures they hid there. This has attracted a number of expeditions which starting in
the XVII century have marked the life of this insular territory.

Between 1844 and 1927 there are records of at least 10 adventurers who set out to
search for the treasure supposedly left in the Island. Of these treasures, the most famous is the
"Treasure of Lima". The name of the British John Keating became a legend as he supposedly
was the only one who found the treasure. To avoid having to share his findings, he only took
a few coins with him and decided to come back at a later time. Unfortunately his plans did not
cristalize because a serious disease forced him to be in bed until his death.

Another important character in the Island's history is the German Augusto Gissler who in
1897, was appointed Lieutenant-Governor of the Island, with a concession to search for
treasures. All of his efforts proved to be unsucessful. However, he represented the first
colonizing attempt that took place in the Island. Gissler was able to establish there, from 1984
to 1912 a group of 13 German families who basically became farmers. Even today and as a
testimonial to their activities, coffee shrubs and avocado trees remain standing in the area.
Likewise, the tunnels that he caved in his search for the treasure can still be seen in nearby
areas of Bahia Wafer.
