Coco’s Istand General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
30

It is important to highlight in addition, that between 1878 and 1881 there was a prison on
the Island. Punta Presidio is a remainder of such activity, and it is still possible to observe
spread in the area, fragments of cooked clay, as kunique evidence of prior constructions.

Within the most interesting historical elements woth mentioning are the numerous
incriptions on the rocks, especially at Bahia Chatham and Wafer. Their majority date to the
past century or beginning of the present one and represent truthful evidence of the multiple
activities that have taken place on the Island; its strategic importance for the fishing,
commercial, and military endeavors.

These incriptions show natural alterations (caused by the salinity, the swell and the
exposition to the elements). However, the biggest damage is caused by human actions
(elimination of previous inscriptions in order to leave new ones). This happens in spite of the
fact that there is legislation that prohibits such acts.

Finally, it is important to keep in mind that Coco's Island was incorporated as national
territory in 1869 during a visit of Rafael Oreamuno, then government official during the
administration of President Jesus Jimenez.

E. Public Use

Based on the attractions that can be found on the park, five types of tourism can be
described:

(a) Advanced Diving: Coco's Island National Park constitutes one of the best sites in the
world for Scuba diving, especially to admire marine species of big sizes such as hammer
heads, white tip sharks, whale sharks, manta rays, marine turtles, dolphins, etc. This type of
visitor represents a high percentage of the visitation and who in rare occasions wanders into
the forest, comes in sail boats (without having a guide) or in specialized embarkations for this
activity. At the present time, there are two ships that belong to different companies that
operate on a permanent basis at Coco's Island (Okeanos Aggressor, with a capacity for 20
divers and 9 crew members, and the Undersea Hunter with 14 divers and 6 crew members),
embarkations of other companies reach the Island sporadically.

(b) Sport Fishing: Though this sport is not practiced within the limits of the protected
waters, a mother ship uses the Island as an operational center.

(c) Scientific Tourism: Attracted by the high percentage of endemism among terrestrial
plants and animals, this kind of visitor usually stays on the Island for prolongued periods (from
two weeks to several months) and usually visits the Island a second time.
