The Island has an almost complete vegetation coverage (refer to Figure .6), as
described in section 3b, In most respects,,Cocos is still a good example of a mostly
undisturbed area, where natural processes continue to operate upon the flora and fauna
of the Island. This is.largely due to the fact that the Island is far from the coast, which |
made it practically inaccessible for the common fishermen for many years. Even’ for the
well trained sailors of past centuries, the Island was-hard to find because of its constant
cloud coverage, perhaps its best natural protection ‘against humankind at that time.
Today, sophisticated navigational equipment takes the island easily found, but - legal
measures have already been set in pkice to ensure continuity of its protection.

The actual state of conservation of the Island -- and the Conservation Area in general -- is
such that this may well be considered one of the few, if not the only island in the South
Eastern Tropical Pacific Ocean to harbor healthy environments of its kind. This is.
indeed the. reason why it was ranked as a zone of “high priority...representing
immediate opportunities,for action aimed at the conservation for marine biodiversity",
according to the Global Representative Systém of Marine Protected Areas (Kelleher,
_ G5; K. Bleakley & S. Wells. A Global Representative: System of Marine Protected
Areas. Volume IV. The Great Barrier Reef Marine Park Authority, The World Bank
ae and the World Conservation Union). ,

‘In the past, the Marine Area of the CIMTCA had been under fishing pressure, but since
_ + the creation of the National Park, 18 years ago, it has been protected from this kind of-
pressure. At present, more funds have been made available for this Area, ensuring an
improved surveillance of the marine area. The Government and private institutions such
as the Friends of Cocos Island Foundation have committed to provide proper navigational
and communications equipment for the Park’ Ss. Tanger, to guarantee the most complete
protection possible. : .

As a result of all thé efforts to protect Coco’s marine ecosystems, clear signs of.
recuperation have already been reported in species which had been affected i in the past.
That is the case of the spiny lobster, which can now be found in increased abundance,
according to dive masters” reports. os : an <4 ’

' The recenfly completed and officiatized General Management Plan, prepared by ‘the
Program for Environmental Studies at the University of Costa Rica, the oldest and best.

- renown in. the country, “established a zonification where the diving, anchoring as well as
‘protection areas have been identified, in order to ensure long term conservation of-sites
under public use. Only one terrestrial trail has been indicated as suitable for yse and

* restricted to the least rainy periods, in view of preventing increased sedimentation of.
_ the marine watefs. . - - . os .

a
a

+ '

Cocos Nomination i a : 13~—C- : ‘Printed in banana fiber paper
