Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
31

(d) Treasure hunters: The Island is famous for being a place where pirate supposedly hid
immense riches. In spite of the fact that this type of visitation is becoming less common, there
are records showing no less than 400 expeditions that searched the treasures (Brenes,
Guillermo, 1994, School of Geography, pers. comm).

(e) Ecological Tourism: This is the kind of visitor that enjoys both snorkeling diving as well
as walking in the forest. This could be small groups of people that travel in sail boats or in
tourism boats for long periods through the Oriental Pacific (i.e. Polaris).

Another kind of users at Coco's Island National Park includes those that come
"accidentally" to make repairs, to take a rest, to resupply drinkable water. In addition, many
national artisanal fishermen utilize the two main bays (Chatham and Wafer) as ankorage
points for one or two nights.

The Public Use Zone (PUZ) at Coco's Island encompasses both, the terrestrial and the
marine parts. However, the marine resources constitute the main attractions. According to
conservative estimates, the PUZ represents about 1.9% of the total area of the Island, whereas
the marine represents about 32% of the protected marine surface. It is important to point out
that in as much the marine zone has a particularly intense use, it has not been properly
demarked. The PUZ on the other hand, is very well delimited and the intensive use is
concentrated on a few sites (beaches, the Rio Genio waterfall, and to a lesser degree, Cerro
Iglesias).

It is less probable that the present rate of tourist visitation surpasses the previous impact
in the terrestrial part: the human presence goes back to two centuries, hunting of native
species is almost non-existent, and the zones deforested by pioneer colonists are in process of
recovery. On the other hand, however, concerning the marine environment, the presence of
divers and specialized tourism operators and of those people that practice recreational fishing
is considerably increasing.

The impact caused by visitation could increase since embarkations arriving to the Island
are not required any kind of legal permit. Although this is mandated by present legislation, it
has not been put into practice, to the exception of research missions, because of the following
reasons: it is not realistic to require permits issued by Coco's Island administration to tourist
ships coming from foreign ports. In the case of those who embark in Puntarenas or Quepos,
they rarely admit before hand their plans to reach Coco's Island.

Thus, it is urgent to use the public use that CINP is to provide. First, there must be a
continuous monitoring of the tendencies concerning tourist visitation. In this way, notable
changes in the intensity and quality of visitation could be detected and the proper management
steps could be implemented. For this, there is a section where monitoring methods are
suggested.
