Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
32

The development of infrastructure implemented in the last two years provides more
comfort and satisfaction to the visitor, and has concentrated on those beaches showing a
higher use. It consists in the establishment of dining huts and rest areas in Bahias Wafer and
Chatham, and sanitary services, showers and drinking water in both areas. However, there are
other aspects that need attention such as: the appropriate design of some paths (they are not
circular, slope has not been reduced), the lack of rest areas, and the bad condition of some of
the sections, the need of housing for researchers, the lack of a center of multiple use to serve
the tourists (independent from the house used by staff members), and the need to place fix
buoys in the main bays.

Concerning visitation, this concentrates between March and May. However, small
variations suddenly double or triple the numbers. Although a complete registration of visitors
is not kept, it is estimated that CINP annually receives some 1,100 people (between tourists
and fishermen) and has a traffic of about 230 embarkations (approximately 150 fishing boats
and 80 tourist ships). It is important to keep in mind, however, that from 1985 to 1993 there
has been an increase of 260% in the number of visitors, a figure that will most likely increase
in the next years.

With respect to the profile of the visitors, about 60% are foreign nationals, a high
proportion is made up by advanced divers (third age visitors and children seem not to adjust
to the characteristics of the Island). A substantial number of the visitors perceive incomes of
about $ 50,000, the Costa Rican component mostly represented by artisanal fishermen, do not
surpass $ 8,500 a year.

As to the users' satisfaction, indirect observations suggest that in general, the CINP meets
and surpasses their expectations. However, the lack of maps, informational and educational
brochures represents a nuisance both for the tourists as well as for the park's staff. The visit to
the CINP could be much more profitable if this type of materials were available. Photocopies
of a clear and well designed map could be a good start.

Commercial or recreational fishing on the other hand requires much more attention. An
increase in recreational fishing is foreseeable (sail fish, marlin, shark). Therefore, it is almost
impossible to provide specific guidelines to regulate this activity as a whole (including
duration and frequency and the prohibition of detergent use to clean ships).

Because of its social component, commercial fishing is harder to control. To this effect,
the specific recommendations for the Socio-economic component must be followed.

F. Waste Management

1. Present situation of solid waste management
