Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
33

a. Storage

The staff and volunteers at the main posts of CINP are responsible for the waste storage.
At the Bahia Wafer post, there are differentiated trash cans for each type of waste: food
leftovers, cans and glass, paper, cardboard, and plastic. Food leftovers are used to feed the
pigs ("cimarrones") which are captured. The rest of the recyclable waste is stored in an
improvised structure. At Bahia Chatham the waste is stored in conventional trash cans but is
not separated. Additionally, in this post there is electric equipment to flatten aluminum cans,
which helps reduce the volume and provides a motivation to separate and classify the waste.

The embarkations that visit the Island, in particular the Oceans and the Searcher, do not
practice a previous separation of the waste. Rather, the waste is stored in plastic bags in some
compartment of the ship. The bulk of this waste is represented by refreshment packaging, beer
cans, and plates or disposable food boxes.

b. Recollection and transportation

The waste which is previously classified and separated in the Island is gathered in sacs or
big bags and taken to a storage area. The transport of this waste to continental land does not
obey to a system but rather depends on the good will of ships that visit the Island. The
quantity of waste generated by these ships is excessive and therefore are frequently left
without any space for additional volume.

Something that is not clear has to do with the commercialization of recyclable waste
which is classified and separated in the Island. It seems that after this waste is transported to
Puntarenas (when there is space available in any ship), it is not always sold or donated but
rather end up in the municipal dump.

c. Final disposal

The ships that visit the Island store the waste that they generate and then bring it back to
Puntarenas where it is taken to the municipal dump. This final disposal site is not apparently
being technically managed and it rather represents a serious focus of contamination. The
waste generated in the Island has apparently the same destination including the one that
should be sold or donated to be recycled.

Concerning the solid waste generated by sail boats and small ships it probably finds its
final destination in the ocean.
