Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
34

d. Recycling

The first step that should be carried out in any phase of recycling, recovery and
separation, is being practiced at the National Park. However, a constant program of
commercialization has not been established for those materials that some residual economic
value.

Likewise, a big amount of packing materials and aluminum cans that come from the
embarkations are disposed of without any possibility for recycling.

2. Evaluation of the generation and composition of solid waste

At Coco's Island posts, an average of 3 kgs of solid waste are generated every day.
It is estimated that for 1994, the total weight of solid waste generated in firm land will reach
1,000kgs. This waste is made up in its majority by food leftovers (715 kgs). In addition, up to
105 kgs of plastic, 24 kgs of metals, 64 kgs of paper and cardboard, 31 kgs of glass and 61
kgs of other types could also be generated.

3. Situation of the served waters disposal

Sewage waters are collected and conducted to septic tanks, but the drainages are
not operating well as the infrastructure works of Chatham and Wafer are in areas of river
flooding. The freatic levels are very high during the rainy season and the filtration capacity of
the terrain for the overflowing water of the tanks is low, thus, the sanitary services are almost
always in bad condition.

The improvised pigsty is poorly conditioned and was built very close to the main
building. One of the most important problems that it represents is the draining of the residual
waters. These waters are conducted to the main drainage which overflows into the Genio
river.

Big ships such as the Oceans and the Searcher dump their sewage waters into the
ocean. The only process prior to this discharge is the homogenization of the waters.

G. Infrastructure

Due to the soft slopes, to the existence of ensenadas (necessary for the docking of
small crafts) and to the availability of sources of drinking water, the two other most
intervened sectors from the points of view of deforestation, erosion, introduction of species
and construction of infrastructure have been and continue to be Bahia Chatham and Bahia
Wafer. None of these two posts provide a previous treatment to water destined for human
consumption; the water is simply taken from some river and conducter directly into the
homes. To this respect, it is assumed that this water may present some level of contamination
because of the excrements of the "cimarrones" pigs.
