 

 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
35

The main building, constructed in 1986 in Bahia Wafer, has its first floor made of
reinforced masonry. The second floor is made of wood and it is poorly protected from the
rain. In general this construction is not very functional, the space is insuficient for the amount
of people who operate at the post as well as for the number of activities which are carried out
there, the space is poorly distributed and when the solar radiation is intense, the lack of a
ceiling creates very high temperatures. It has been painted with inadequate colors (the same
usually used at National Parks) but its fagade is neither attractive nor integrated into the
surrounding context. :

The house at Bahia Chatham was recently constructed (1993); it is made of wood and
has a good distribution. In addition, the space seems to satisfy the needs of the people who
work there (ventilation, protection against the elements, safety, adequate area for diverse
activities).

Concerning the minor infrastructure, this is in general the product of improvisation, it is
badly constructed, poorly conditioned, and it is not safe. In particular, the structure used for
the storage of fuel does not present any effective protection against rain or strong winds. This
will eventually cause the deterioration of the tools and the equipment kept there.

In the paths, the most sensitive parts and the ones that represent the highest risk for
visitors are the high slopes which in many cases are superior to 100%. The risk is higher
during the rainy season when the rocks become slippery. This sector is the one that presents
the most serious problems of erosion, especially at the beginning of the basis of the hill. At the
second entry towards the waterfalls of the Genio river, the path goes parallel to a steep slope
and during the rainy season, the erosion facilitates the passage of sediments into the river.

H. Legal Aspects controlling Coco's Island National Park:
A Proposal for an Integral Revision

Coco's Island National Park presents particular characteristics concerning the legal
framework it abides by. First, our Political Constitution, which is the Fundamental Norm, in
its article 5 that defines territorial limits, expressly refers to Coco's Island indicating that it is
patrimony of Costa Rica. Please note that differently from the rest of the protected areas with
an equal management category, this is the only one with constitutional relevance. This fact, by
itself, denotes the importance of the Park for the rest of the country: its situation transcends
the aspects of protection and conservation of the cultural resources to include those related to
juncture and geopolitical strategy.

Under law No. 6084, Ley de Creacién del Servicios de Patrimonio de Parques
Nacionales and No. 7174 Ley Forestal, the CINP together with the rest of the national
parks becomes regulated in its basic aspects. Law No. 6084 stipulates the reasons for the
