 

Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
36

creation of such protected areas as well as prohibitions and limitations they abide by. The
promulgation of the second law defines the different categories of management that comprise
the Patrimonio Forestal del Estado, including the National Parks, as well as the
requirements for the creation or reduction of such areas.

It is important to indicate that if a park becomes so by law or by executive decree (the
former with less legal power than the first; it also yields in the hierarchy of norms), any
reduction in the declared area can only be affected by the approval of a law, prior fulfillment
of the technical conditions set out by the Ley Forestal (Forestry law). This implies a level of
difficulty designed to ascertain the conservation of existing resources within protected
wilderness areas.

The above mentioned dispositions constitute then, the legal framework that control the
creation and functioning, the same being of obligatory obedience under penalty for non-
compliance, depending on circumstantial elements: the agent who disrespects the law and the
kind of action executed.

In all cases, it is important to mention that the said bodies of law, by definition are of a
general nature. In order to guarantee their compliance more specific aspect must be regulated.
To do this, the Executive Branch, through the Ministery of Natural Resources, Energy and
Mines must issue the corresponding decrees.

In the specific case of CINP, the difficulty found is that in spite of the fact that there is a
significant amount of executive decrees regulating the different aspects that affect the Island
(going from visitation guidelines to the prohibition for treasure hunting), they are not in the
same document that in one way or the other groups the related dispositions.

Taking into account the present jucture whereby the betterment of the
administration and management of the Island is sought, is that an integral revision of these
regulations is proposed. Of special attention is the need to have Guidelines for Public Use for
the Island, that will include all the technical recommendations presented in the GMP and those
which normally are included in this type of regulations. Next follows a proposal concerning
diving and aquatic activities that must be included in the Guideliness for Public Use.

Proposal of Technical Aspects Related to Diving and to Aquatic Activities that must be
included in the General Guidelines for Coco's Island
