Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
37

Introduction

The practice of diving, either snorkeling or Scuba, has become very popular in the entire
world. The moment that improvements in diving equipment and safety put at the reach of
many people the possibility of going underwater to explore the marine environment, new
frontiers for enjoyment/exploitation are opened.

The coralline reefs constitute the main attraction for those who like diving; unfortunately
many reefs have been the victims of abuse, deterioration, and ransacking.

In spite of this, it is important to underline that the people who like this sport are
precisely the first in understand the importance of protecting these resources. All that is
needed is a brief glance to specialized magazines or diving manuals to reach the conclusion
that the tendency is towards the protection of marine habitats.

The places that offer ideal conditions to touristically exploit scuba diving in Costa Rica
are few. Coco's Island offers one of the best alternatives. However, in view of the fragility of
the ecosystems protected there, it is necessary to regulate all kinds of aquatic activity done
within its limits. This is the goal of the technical aspects that follow:

1) Every person that attempts diving in a protected area must be certified by a reputable
agency. In addition, he/she must be accompanied by a certified guide.

2) All physical and legal parties interested in diving on their own must require a permit at
the headquarters offices of the Service of National Parks. During the visit they must
register, prior to their activities, at the administrative office.

3) Diving is only permitted at indicated sites in the Management Plan. The sites will be
disclosed upon granting of the permit.

4) Anchorage is only allowed in authorized places, or at corresponding buoys.

5) The diving operation must be supported by a boat that fits the needs of the group. It must
not anchor unless during emergencies.
Each protected area has a limit of visitors per day. This limit will be indicated upon
obtaining the corresponding permit. In the specific case of Coco's Island, a maximum
number of 4 groups of 11 divers, including the dive masteries recommended per site.

6) The rangers who are certified divers could accompany diving groups when they think it
appropriate.
