Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
4B

C. SUBPROGRAM OF COORDINATION WITH INCOPESCA
Action Guidelines:

1. To coordinate with public and private institutions the necessary alternatives to
facilitate the control and adequate support of the management of the fishing resource

Activities

a. The captain of every craft must inform port authorities (Quepos, Golfito), prior to
departure, that he/she is planning to fish at the buffer zone of Coco's Island; he/she must
define the approximate arrival time, the type of gear to be used, the species to be
captured, and the time estimated for fishing in the Island. The corresponding permit will
be granted following the technical criteria established by INCOPESCA.

b. To coordinate with INCOPESCA in order to designate an inspector on the Island on a
permanent basis.

c. Before granting any embarkation permits the proper authorities must coordinate with
INCOPESCA to determine the number of crafts already at the buffe zone. Both entities
must keep a close contact in order to guarantee the adequate management of the zone.

d. The Park authorities and/or the representative of INCOPESCA will inform the port
authorities upon termination of fishing assignments, as well as craft estimated arrival
time, and if craft has reported capture information as indicated before. Should an
embarkation not abide by the established conditions, INCOPESCA will proceed to
impose the corresponding penalties, cancellation of fishing license in those waters among
them.

e. The captain of the craft will establish contact with the Island authorities upon arrival to
the 21.6 km limit

f. Upon finishing fishing activities, the Captain must communicate the representative of
INCOPESCA and/or authorities on the Island the capture obtained and the species. The
authorities reserve the right to check any embarkation to confirm the informed reported.
This information must be periodically sent to the Instituto de Pesca, for this to develop a
system of statistics that will allow monitoring the condition of fishing resources'®.

Its analysis will allow to determine the possibility to continue
with the Buffer Zone, and if the number of crafts authorized
simultaneously and the extraction could be increased or decreased
