c. “Means. for preservation/ conservation, uo .

.

ad

‘

Since 1898, the Costa Rican Government has recognized. the scientific value of the.
island, but it is only in 1978, that it is declared a National Park (see Juridical Data). As a
proof of the Government's commitment to protect the biodiversity, in 1991, a new
Executive Decree expanded the marine limits of the Park to 15 km around the island.
This situation is ratified in the General Management Plan, which adds a buffer zone where
strict control of fishing. activity is mandatory. A copy of the General Management Plan i is -
included i in Annex 5. .

Civil society's ‘role in the conservation of: the island i is illustrated by the creation of the
Friends of Cocos Island Foundation, an NGO designed to help gathering’ funds and
searching for support for the island's conservation. The Foundation’s main objective has
been the creation of a trust fund to ensure perpetual conservation of the area. By means

of Executive Decree 146-94 MIRENEM, the Government of Costa Rica appointed.“ -

Foundation’s the Lic. Rodrigo Carazo O. (former Costa Rican President) as National
Commissioner for the. Island, and Dr. Jean. Michel Cousteau as International
Commissioner. cot

1

The CIMTCA holds a staff of 14. One Director, a Subdirector, three administrative staff

_and 9 field personnel assure the protection of the biodiversity of the, Area. Funds

allocated by the government of Costa Rica and donors (Government of Holland) have ~
permitted the building of new administrative offices, as well as basic infrastructure for
more scientific research. The acquisition of better and faster boats permits today a better

. surveillance of the marine: protected area.

“Recent encounters with foreign fishing boats operating illegally i in the. 1e. protected marine

area led to negotiations with the respective government, which withdrew its fishing fleet
from these waters.

It is important to add that in order to reduce human impacts to the strict minimum,

Executive Decree No 23461 -MIRENEM. absolutely prohibits the granting of
-explonation permits for the mythieal treasures supposedly buried atCocos.'”

In terms of guarantgeing the preservation of the natural processes and the recuperation of
affected areas, the General Management Plan calls for the elimination of all exotic
species: in the Island. In Annex 6 we include a specific Proposal for the elimination of the
feral Pigs. ‘ . -. \

.

Coges Nomination ° Se . 45 : . Printed in banana fiber paper

 

 
