Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
54

7. To prepare a proposal to eliminate all exotic species”
Activities:
a. To make a reliable determination of the density of pigs and other species

b. To establish a program for the progressive elimination of exotic flora and fauna ("poro",

ott oon

"achiote", "coffee", "pigs")
8. To correct the present nautic chart
Activities:

a. Using a recent photography of Coco's Island select point around the Island to measure its
position by means of systems of global georeferencing

b. For each point measure the pairs of latitude and longitude coordinates using GPS and
simultaneous monitoring with a base station, correct the measurements to obtain a maximum
error of 5 meters

c. Coordinate simultaneous monitoring of a base station, such as the one of the School of
Geography of the National University, National Registry, etc., that have compatible
positioning equipment and allows for the application of differential correction

9. To study the sedimentation phenomenon at bahias Chatham and Wafer
Activities:

a. Request support and offer facilities for the study of sedimentation on the Island

b. Determine the history of sedimentation on the bays using button nuclei

c. Identify the sources and causes of such sedimentation

~his activity has the purpose of promoting the recovery of the Island
towards those existing before the introduction of exotic flora and fauna the
most conspicuous and abundant being the coffee and the pigs. This activity
is vital to keep the processes characteristic of insular habitats. Two
proposals for the elimination of feral pigs have been included in Annex 1.
The elimination of exotic flora must be carried out manually, by area, and
following a procedure to minimize impacts on the environment, such as an
increase of sedimentation due to reduction of the vegetable layer. A
proposal that specifies the procedure to follow, the areas that will be
manipulated as well as an impact declaration to identify the necessary
contingency measures, the estimated recovery period and the ways to achieve
it (natural or induced)
