Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
60

c. To coordinate activities with universities and other higher education institutions to
interpret paths.

d. - Make interpretative brochures for all paths”
e. To recommend pertinent signs in various languages.

f. -In "Cerro Iglesias" path, signs describing the natural history of "Palo de Hierro", ferns
or “pinzones" from the Island could be made.

g. - The Look out could be used as an interpretative center, where some interesting
processes of the ecosystem could be described (who are the producers, who are the
consumers), and the natural history of some endemic species. Signs could be placed at
spots where "Espiritu Santo" birds (Gygis alba) could be seen and in the cypress patchs
Hypolitrum amplum.

h. A brochure containing the following could be made: hydric wealth of CINP, forests role
in hydric balance, introduction of exotic species within a habitat -particularly, feral
species (and specifically pigs from the island)- and natural history of some of the most
common florist species ("Palo de Hierro", ferns, moss, etc.). Likewise, issues like these
could be included:

i. - Geologic history of the Island and its relation with the Galapagos Islands, a brief
descriptive history (discovery, importance of the island for sailors and pirates of the
XVIII and XIX centuries, colonization by Gissler and others, its use as a penitentiary
center), the fact that Costa Rica limits with Ecuador (taking advantage of this
geographical boundary marker), role of this island that guarantees a vast extension of
patrimonial waters for Costa Rica.

I. - Marine resource wealth, ecological importance for pelagic species, cleaning
stations for hammer heads, habitat for white tip shark and reef fishes, etc.),
biogeographical value of its location for marine species of the IndoPacific.

IL. -Threats and pressures that the CINP faces (oceanographic phenomena like El
Nifio, Southern Oscillation, illegal fishery, abuse and tourist's contamination,
etc.). Here is important to point out the importance of grants to secure economic
funds that permit its conservation.

f. Tocheck and update, periodically, the interpretation within the Park

29 tt is possible to make more than one brochure for just one specific

path for all seasons, it could design for specific groups (e.g. "Land"
naturalists vrs divers).
