Coco’s Island General Management Plan UCR-FUNDEVI-PROAMBI/MIRENEM/ICT
63

The zonation criteria (Figure 2) are the results of the study and the recognition of the
possibilities, and the limitations, of the resources of the Cocoa’s Island National Park. Due to the
physical and biological conditions that it presents, it was considered convenient to use the
following classification:*”

a. Restricted zone or Absolute Protected
b. Zone to be used by the public

c. Wildlife recovery zone

d. Buffer zone

A. Restricted zone (Absolute Protection)

The main objective is to preserve the biodiversity, only activities that keep relation to the
management of protection measures are allowed.

Terrestrial habitats:

It is considered that, except areas used by the public, the entire island is that of absolute
protection. Likewise and due to its inaccessibility, the fragility of the soils and vegetal
ecosystems, the insular system around it falls in the same category. These small islands are
particularly important due to the nesting sites that they have.

Marine habitats:

Regarding the marine part, it is necessary to remember that this Park has a limit of 15 km
around the island. This area constitutes, by its mere declaration as National Park, an area of
absolute protection, where no extraction of marine resources, live or dead, no commercial,
industrial or agricultural activities are allowed, according to Article 8, Law N. 6084, National
Parks Law.

In the Zonation Map, especially sensitive zones have been marked with an R. These are:
Bahia Chatham, Punta Presidio and Bahia Iglesias (between the Island and Isla Muela). The
reef at Bahia Chatham seems to be recovering from El Nifio 1982/83, however, the bases of the
majority of the reefs are very eroded (because, above all, of the urchins). This makes the colonies
to be extremely fragile, should the number of divers increase, chances to destroy the reef will
increase too. "Punta Presidio", on the other hand, needs special protection because it is one of the
islands with the richest rich reef species. Finally, Bahia Iglesias has one of the largest populations
of extended coral reefs, populations that constitute the larvae sources for the rest of the island,
where these species are scarce.

This proposal is based on the zonation suggested in the document
"Manejo de Areas Protegidas en los Trépicos" (John and Kathy Mackinnon,
Graham Child, and Jim Thorsell, UICN/PNUMA, 1990).
