a

WORLD HERITAGE NOMINATION - IUCN TECHNICAL EVALUATION

COCOS ISLAND NATIONAL PARK (COSTA RICA)

 

1. DOCUMENTATION
(i) TUCN/WCMC Data Sheet (16 references)

(ii) Additional Literature Consulted: Cortes, J. 1997. Biology and Geology of Eastern Pacific Coral
Reefs. Coral_Reefs 16; Camhi, M. 1996. Costa Rica's Shark Fishery and Cartilage Industry. Shark
News 8; IUCN et. al. 1995. A Global Representative System of Marine Protected Areas. Vol.
IV; Roessler, C. 1993. Great_Reefs of the World. Pisces Books; Thorsell, J. 1993. Which Islands
Merit World Heritage Status? Insula No 2; Allen, G.R. and D.R. Roberts. 1994. Fishes of the
Tropical Eastern Pacific. University of Hawaii Press; WWF. 1996. Marine Fishes in the Wild.
Species Status Report; Rose, D. A. 1996. An Overview of World Trade in Sharks. TRAFFIC;
Weber, M.C. and S.V. Fordham. 1997. Managing Shark Fisheries: Opportunities for
International Conservation. TRAFFIC.

(iii) Consultations: 8 external reviewers, Costa Rican Ministry of Environment officials, Friends of
Cocos Island Foundation, University scientists, private dive boat operators.

(iv) Field Visit: J. Thorsell, Enrique Lahmann, March, 1997
2. SUMMARY OF NATURAL VALUES

Cocos Island National Park (CINP) is located 550km off the Pacific Coast of Costa Rica. It extends over
24km? of land and includes a 977km? surrounding marine zone (15km radius). The island is of volcanic
origin associated with an oceanic ridge that runs toward the Galapagos, 600km to the south-west. The
climate is humid equatorial with some 7000mm of rainfall per year. The island has a dense vegetation with a
small area of cloud forest on its 634m summit. About 70 of its 235 plant species are endemic and there are
two endemic freshwater fish. Migratory birds nest on nearby islets and there are three species of endemic
land birds. Introduced species, (especially feral pigs) have substantially altered the island. Marine fauna is
the primary feature of natural interest in CINP. 300 species of fish have been recorded with major numbers
of large pelagic migratory species such as sharks, rays, tuna, billfish and dolphins. The area is known for the
particular abundance of hammerhead sharks and white-tip sharks and the rocks and islets surrounding the
main island are reported to serve as "cleaning stations" where certain pelagics come to have parasites
removed. Three species of turtle are also present. A total of 32 coral species are found but most have not
recovered after the major collapse caused by the 1992-93 El Nifio event. CINP, due to its location at the
contact point of the northern equatorial counter current is thought to play a major role as a distribution
centre for larvae of many marine species. The human historical record includes pirates, attempts at
settlement, and the use of the island (1872-74) as a prison.

The Government of Costa Rica has nominated CINP under natural criteria (ii) and (iv).
3. COMPARISON WITH OTHER AREAS

CINP is the only protected area in the Cocos Island Biogeographic Province. It is one of five discrete island
groups in the tropical eastern Pacific which also include the Galapagos, Malepo, Clipperton and the

Cocos Island (Costa Rica) 35
