 

Revillagigeo Group. All of these except Clipperton (which is an atoll) are of volcanic origin and all except
Cocos are barren and dry. All of these island groups, except Cocos. are being intensely commercially fished.
in the case of the Galapagos, illegally. Galapagos is also inhabited while Cocos is not. For its marine
resources then, CINP is the only fully protected area in these five groups and thus the site with the best
opportunity to preserve the array of large oceanic species that are found there.

In terms of diversity, the fish and marine life throughout the tropical eastern Pacific is relatively uniform
with Galapagos having the highest on all counts due to its blend of Indo-west Pacific and temperate South
American influences. Indeed, few islands anywhere in the world have the faunal complexity of the
Galapagos group due to the diversity of its habitats and interaction of two major oceanic currents. CINP
rates 30th on the list of the world's oceanic islands in terms of endemic plant species. It is relatively poor in
species of flora with 235 compared to 801 species in the Galapagos and 362 on Juan Fernandez in Chile.
The degree of endemism in CINP is 30% while in the Galapagos 60% of plants are endemic. Again with
birds, Galapagos has 13 species of finch compared to one on Cocos.

The phenomenon of the trans-Pacific dispersal of larvae and marine life is shared with Galapagos but in a
reverse way. Galapagos receives the warm surface waters during El Nifio events first while Cocos receives
the west to east surface flows first. The behavioural aspects regarding "cleaning stations” for Hammerheads
and other large sharks has also been observed at Wolf and Darwin Islands in the Galapagos.

Scenically , Cocos Island itself with its forest-covered precipitous slopes and waterfalls is indeed dramatic.
There are a number of other islands in the Pacific, however, that present a similar appearance and Cocos
does not particularly stand out in this regard.

In sum, CINP, like most oceanic islands has many distinctive features and endemic species. Geographic
proximity and shared faunal elements encourage comparison with the Galapagos which is clearly the pre-
eminent island group in the Pacific in terms of its importance to science and conservation. CINP is,
however, distinctive not so much in terms of its terrestrial values but for its marine ecosystem. The
underwater world of CINP has become famous in the past decade due to the attraction it has for divers who
rate it as one of the best places in the world to view large pelagic species. Sharks can, of course, be
commonly seen in other locations in the Bahamas, Seychelles and Australia but nowhere are they so
abundant and approachable as in CINP. The conservation values of the ocean surrounding the island are
globally significant especially for sharks and perhaps for other fish populations. The role of CINP as a
dispersal centre, nursery, and safe haven for marine life in a region that is intensely commercially harvested
is clearly its most significant feature.

4. INTEGRITY

Though the CINP is uninhabited except for park staff, tourists and fishermen using the harbour, the
influence of humans over the years has resulted in considerable modification to the natural habitat of the
island. Coffee and guava trees planted by early settlers have replaced much of the understory. Introduced
deer, pigs, cats, rats and goats have also had a significant impact as well. The range of management issues in
the CINP have been identified in the 1995 management plan for the site and are summarised in the attached
table.

Apart from the problems of ecological restoration (particularly the eradication of feral pigs) and visitor
management (an average of 30 scuba divers per week visit CINP), the key issue in regard to integrity is
surveillance and control of illegal fishing. Park staff do not have adequate patrol boats to police the
surrounding ocean and there is undoubtedly illegal fishing taking place though the extent is not known.
Fishing within the park boundary is prohibited and this is soon to extend from its current 8km limit to 15km.
This will be sufficient to protect resident populations but not migratory species. As has been experienced in
many other areas, especially in nearby Galapagos, commercial fishing can seriously deplete stocks and can

Cocos Island (Costa Rica) 36
