 

quickly get out of hand. Sharks are particular targets and fishing pressure on them has grown rapidly.
largely in response to demand for fins and cartilage from Asia. As CINP is the main marine protected area
in the entire region (at least until the new Galapagos Marine Resource Reserve becomes functional). it is
critically important that the regulations that have been promulgated are applied.

The Government of Costa Rica has taken strong conservation measures to protect CINP since 1991 when
the marine ecosystem was added to the island. Before then, the waters adjacent to the island were open for
fishing and many thousands of sharks were taken in the area now in the park. Most populations have
recovered from this harvest except for silky sharks. Billfish are also reduced due to sport fishing outside the
park boundaries (even though tag and release methods are used, high mortality is experienced).

CINP has a recently completed comprehensive management plan and a complement of 16 trained staff. Its
integrity is further strengthened by the existence of a private NGO Foundation - "The Friends of Cocos
Island” which assists in fund raising for the park. The park authorities and dive boat operators also have
close relationships but cooperation with local fishermen needs to be strengthened.

5. ADDITIONAL COMMENTS

The name of the site originally submitted was "Cocos Island Marine and Terrestrial Conservation Area”.
During discussions with the Costa Rica authorities this was shortened to "Cocos Island National Park".

The nomination of CINP is one of the first cases where a nomination previously not accepted by the
Committee (1985) has been reformulated and submitted. The new document provided substantial new
information which has come to light on the marine resources of the site and the extension of the park
boundary now includes the ocean area 15km radius from the island (currently the regulations are enforced
out to 8km but this is soon to be extended to 15km).

6. APPLICABILITY OF WORLD HERITAGE NATURAL CRITERIA

CINP is the only island in the tropical eastern Pacific that supports a humid tropical forest. Its position as
the first point of contact with the northern equatorial counter current and the myriad of interactions between
the island and the surrounding marine ecosystem make the area an ideal laboratory for the study of
biological processes. These studies have only just begun and there is much research to do on the life cycles
of marine species and the complex interaction of climate/currents/birds/nutrients/etc. that make up the
CINP. The site thus meets criterion (ii) and the related Conditions of Integrity.

CINP also meets criterion (iv) for the critical habitat it provides for marine species and for the role it plays
as the major site in the region in protection of large pelagic species especially sharks. The condition of
integrity that requires protection of migratory species outside of CINP, however, is impossible to achieve as
these species are heavily exploited outside the park.

IUCN also considered applying criterion (iii) to the CINP nomination but had difficulty interpreting the
"natural beauty and aesthetic importance" in an underwater setting.

7. RECOMMENDATIONS
That CINP be added to the World Heritage List under criteria (ii) and (iv). The Government of Costa Rica
should be commended for its initiative to incorporate the marine environment into the park and be

encouraged to continue this effort to extend the limit of management from the current 8km to 15km around
the island.

Cocos Island (Costa Rica) 38
