 

WORLD HERITAGE NOMINATION - IUCN TECHNICAL
EVALUATION

COCOS ISLAND NATIONAL PARK (COSTA RICA)

 

Background note: The IUCN technical evaluation of Cocos Island National Park (Costa Rica) was
presented to the twenty-first session of the World Heritage Committee (Naples, 1997). Based on
IUCN’s advice the Committee adopted the following recommendation:

“The Committee inscribed Cocos Island National Park under natural criteria (ii) and (iv) because of
the critical habitats the site provides for marine wildlife including large pelagic species, especially
sharks. The Committee commended the Government of Costa Rica for its initiative to incorporate the
marine environment into the Park and encouraged it to extend management from 8km to the 15km
legal limit around the island.”

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

On the 10 October 2001 the marine protected area surrounding Cocos Island was officially extended
from 15km (8.33 nautical miles) to 22km (12 nautical miles) in order to increase the protection of the
marine resources. This extension increases the total area of the marine protected area from 977km2 to
1,997km2 (199 ,700ha).

The twenty-sixth session of the Bureau (Paris, April 2002) was informed of the recent extension of the
marine limits of the National Park. Based on IUCN’s advice the Bureau made the following
recommendation:

*The Bureau congratulated the State Party on the extension of the Marine Park boundaries to 12
nautical miles, and, in light of the desire of the State Party to extend the boundaries of the World
Heritage site to be commensurate with these new boundaries, requested that the proposal be submitted
in due course, including a map of the extension” .

By letter to the World Heritage Centre dated 25 April 2002 the State Party officially requested that the
boundaries of the World Heritage site be extended to equal the marine protected area. The map of this
extension is included below.

APPLICATION OF CRITERIA / STATEMENT OF SIGNIFICANCE

Cocos Island National Park is inscribed under natural criteria (ii) and (iv). The 1997 IUCN evaluation
noted the following:

Criterion (ii)

Cocos Island National Park (CINP) is the only island in the tropical eastern Pacific that supports a
humid tropical forest. Its position as the first point of contact with the northern equatorial counter
current and the myriad of interactions between the island and the surrounding marine ecosystem make
the area an ideal laboratory for the study of biological processes. These studies have only just begun
and there is much research to do on the life cycles of marine species and the complex interaction of

 

Cocos Island National Park (Costa Rica) 29
