Its condition as a National Park, encompassing under this management- category the
oceanie part of the Conservation’Area, makes Cocos thé only legally protected habitat
for large ‘pelagic migratory species, such as Carcharhinus falciformis, Carcharhinus
_galapaguensis, Carcharhinus albimarginatus and Carcharhinus limbatus. Those species -
have been under i increasing pressure from longline fishermen elsewhere.

_ The island i is the only ‘terrestrial expression of the Cocos Ridge. itis ds. an exceptional
example of an. Island near a spreading center, where careful geological work can help

/ understand and interpret global processes related to the dynamics of the ocean floor. and .

: ridge of the Cocos Plate (Lytle, J.'wr.). It is also believed to offer an exceptional |
“opportunity for on-land study of seamount vulcanism superimposed on early. hotspot
vulcanism (Castillo et al. 1988): Of volcanic origin, Cocos is, believed’ to have: been
formed approximately two million-years ago, bya hot spot. The geological settings of
Cocos and Galapagos are quite different. Cocos is on the flank of a ridge while
Galapagos is on the axis of a ridge. Cocos appears to be related to a ridge structure 4-9,

m.y. older than the. Galapagos Islands, which are linked to the activity of one or perhaps ©
“two 3 my. old ridges at their junction (Bellon et al. - 1983).
Coces stands strategic for the study of climate in the Oriental Pacific. Permanent
’ registration of sea level variations, wind velocities and sea level temperature may prove to
be of high value in’ predicting global atmosphere-ocean interaction such as El Nifio
_ events.‘ Its low level of human interference makes it a key reference: location for the
comprehension of convection processes in the atmosphere, sea breeze systems and
_ movement t of pollutants: oe - : ot ~
The island supports landscapes of exceptional beauty.. High imposing cliffs often
_ Teaching 200 m.a.s.l., covered with thick vegetation, determine the. coastal’ profile. -
Innumerable streams cascade from those heights into the ocean, generating. spectacular
‘waterfalls. Cerro Yglesias, the highest peak of the island, towers at 634 ma.s.l.,
sheltering a misty. eloud forest with a surprising diversity of mosses, lychens, ferns and
trees. A combination of very high precipitation levels, extremely broken territories and a
steep altitudinal gradient génerates rivers, streams and brooks inside the island, irrigating
diverse rainforest. and coastal forest ecosystems. This diversity of ecosystems and —
“ microclimates provides numerous niches supposting relatively high levels of
.  endemism. Actual estimates, ‘based on available literature indicate 104 terrestrial and 58
marine endemic species’, “which add. up to 6.04 endemic species per square kilometer
(see Tables 1 and 2). : . :

- ,

 

‘ Research in marine biology of the island is recent. Higher numbers of endemic species should be

. &xpected

Printed in banana fiber'paper.

Cocos Nomination ; . oe 4.
-, a : -
