. . _ : . . cas .
ee . wg . . on ‘
et _ “ . . . -
: . . : “ . a . .

ae The Southern and Southwestern regions show the most bathymetric variation, with the
_ : presence of high rocks coming up to the surface forming small islands, such as “Dos
: Amigos", "Rafael", and "Juan Bautista" along with a great amount of submerged. rocks.

: a The smail islands and rocks around Cocos support nesting colonies for migratory bird
a : _ Species’ such’ as the brown and red-footed booby (Sula leucogaster and Sula sula), the - —
great frigate bird (Fregata minor), the white tern (Gyngis alba) and the brown | noddy
(Anous stolidus). It is also an important resting site for these species.
v ’
The rare combination of all the above-mentioned elements i in the relatively small unit that
constitutes the Island; undér the prevailing oceanographic and atmospheric regimes
resulting from the influence of a particular system ‘of ocean currents (specially the
Northern Counter Equatorial Current), ‘provides important opportunities .for the
, us conservation of ecological processes in tropical rainforest and coral reef ecosystems,
: not found anywhere else in the South Eastern Pacific, as well as for research, |
- educational and recreational purposes. . .

The island has a dense vegetation cover, where 235 species are known'and endemism is
high, around 70 species (Table 3) (compilation from Genetal Management Plan). The
_ most common plants are the "palo de hierro" (Sacoglottis hodriedgei Humiricaceae) and
se , ' the aguacatén" (Ocotea ira, Lauracea). The undergrowth i is characterized by.the presence
- . of Cyperacea Hypolitrum amplum and various fern species. Approximately 165 Mosses,
‘ ‘ Hepathics and Liverworts have been recorded (Table 4 and 5). This is a particular feature
of the Island, begause, of the large proportion of those species compared to vascular.
plants "there are more Bryophyts than plants im any quadrat made in the forest.of the’
: island" (Dauphin, 1990), Endemisms for hepathics is 3% and for mosses 5%. An endemic
se . hepatic of Costa RicasCalypogeia, rhynchophylla, i is abundant in the highlands of Cerro
: Yglesias. It must be emphasized that this species was believed to be endangered, until its
occurrence in Costa Rica: was studied. Cocos. is one of the few places where this ‘rare 4
| species is found in abundance. Hallingback et al. (1995) indicate that: ". .,although its
. geographical range:is very narrow, the occurrence in the relatively well-managed
National Parks of Costa Rica and its commonness on the remote, uninhabited (and .
_ protected) Cocos Island, indicates that the species may not be considered endangered, *
_ ue at least at-present but "only" rare.“ Eighty five species of fungi have been reported in
. Cocos (Tables 6),-but at least twice that many are expected to exist (Gomez, 1983). The ©
presence of a cloud forest in the Island is a particular feature in this part of the Pacific. ,
“Ocean, resulting fiom the high precipitation and humidity, and quasi constant cloud * -
coverage. Epiphyts are’ common from the lower coastal areas to the higher altitudes of
Cerro Yglesias and other hills.

‘

i

Cocos Nomination . us 5 . : Printed in bariana fiber paper

 

 
