. ‘lat . . . .

‘A number of species appear to be undergoing speciation and niché expansion ‘processes
~ / at Cocos. One such case is the Mucuna urens (Papilinaceae), which shows some  '
differences with regard to mainland populations, In the island’s individuals, the stems are
much shorter and the flowers are brightly colored orange-yellow,. whereas i in the mainland
‘ - *. they are’ creamy white with much longer stems. The island’s individuals appear to be
- ’ polinized by the Cocos firich, while-in the maipland polinization is carried out by bats. All
this seems to indicate the early stages of a speciation Process (Soto, pers. comm.).

Of thé 362 species of insects so, far reported, for the island, 64 are endemic (Table 7);
. however, the number of insect species estimated to occupy the island could be up to 800.
. Their study is considered an important tool for the determination of biogeographic history
( Hogue & Miller 1981). : > . .
Of particular interest, the spider Wendilgarda galapagensis, endemic to Cocos,
represents a dramatic. example of niche expansion in an invertebrate. The webs of at
‘least three mainland species‘are all built exclusively over the surface of forest streams.
Yet in Cocos, W. galapagensis shows an unusually wide variation in habitat’ choice, web
. design, and’ construction behavior (Eberhard 1989). -
Five terrestrial vertebrate species: are endemic: the anolis lizard (Norops townsend
Iguanidae), the. gecko (Sphaerodactylus pacificus,Gekkonidae), the Cocos Cuckoo.
+» | (Coccyzus ferrugineus, Cuculidae), the Cocos Flycatcher (Nesotriccus ridgwayi,

‘ “Tyrannididae), and ‘the Cocos Finch (Piparoloxias inormata, Emberizidae). It has been.
argued that a variety of yellow warbler (Dendroica petechia aureolata) can be considered
an endemic stib-species. There are also indications of -“a persistent, non-opportunistic -
individual foraging specialization, that may contribute to an extraordinary intra-specific

. niche variation in the Cocos:finch” (Sherry et al.). A substancial number Of'sea birds nest
in the surrounding smaller islands. A complete list of species found is given in Table 8.
ot . Marine fauna. is more diverge and appears as the more interesting, exotic’ and in’many
_cases unique feature of the Conservation Area: 32 coral species, 57 crustaceans, more -
than 300 fish including large pelagics such as sail fish, marlin and tuna, various sharks and
rays, Several marine mammals and mollusks probably exceeding 500 (Tables 9 to 12).

Conservation of the island’s “ecosystems contributes to the global conservation of the -

stocks of large pelagic, highly migratory species such as sharks, rays, tuna, mackerel,

sail fish, sword fish, and dolphin fish among others. In effect, analysis of the stomach

/ contents of such species have shown the presence of demersal and. benthic organisms, as
+ * well as small ‘pelagic species such’as Carangids, perciforms belonging to Waenidae and ~
a Lutjanidae, as well as Gobiifforms and Te etraodontiforms This indicates that some of the -

’

. Cocos Nomination “ > o 6 " , Printed in banana fiber paper.

 
