. a oye . . . . 8 - coo. . -
ed soot “ot . . wo . .

. ’ . . -
.

bigger pelagic- species approach the island to feed on bottom « or r reef organisms, which
there bécoime easier. prey | for predators. _
Hammerhead sharks, "‘Sphyrna lewini, -and white tip sharks, qi riaenodon obesus, .
‘swimming in surprisingly large groups or frequently laying over rocks or an ‘the sea -
bottom, are common and do not show the aggressiveness ‘normally seen in other regions. :
Hammerhead are frequently observed in schools of hundreds; as shown in pfeliminary
evaluation of hammerhead populations enclosed at the end of this document and reported
and photographed by every diver visiting the island (please refer to INTERNET
communications in section Public Awareness. In.the case of white tip sharks, which |
" have been observed by the thousands, the amount of individuals found around the island
stands no comparison elsewhere in the: world. Cocos may well.be the only place where .
those species enjoy total protection, whereas their populations are under pressure from
longline fishermen elsewhere. Whale shark Riinchodén type, manta rays Mantha ,
> hamiftonii and dolphins are also-abundant in Cocos. Indeed, even Sea Lions (Zalophus
cali, Hifornianus) have been observed (Acevedo 1993). .
' *
There have been frequent reports of white tip sharks showing a courting behavior. ‘A
particularly interesting aspect related to this is the presence of several “cleaning” fish .
species, such as Holocanthus passer and Johnrandallia nigrirostris, and the existence of :
- "cleaning stations". The western and northern banks. of the Isla Manuelita, Roca, Bote.
: (Piedra Sucia), Isla Pajara, Roca Sumergida, Dos Amigos, Cabo Dampier, Aleta de
Tiburon, Bajo Alcyéne; and to a lesser extent Isla Conica, are representative:of this type
of habitat. The relevance of those cleaning’ stations is another aspect that grarits this -
Conservation’ Area the chatacter. of marine milestone.. Through time, evolutionary.
process have led to the ‘coevolution of such cleaning ‘behaviors, where large pelagics are
freed from parasites that will otherwise reduce their possibilities for survival. Ifthe marine
" habitats of Cocos were not protected, ° such "cleaning stations": would most probably
disappear, adding pressure to the already. stressed populations: of -large Psingics in this”
‘part of the Pacifie Ocean. :

.

é . -

"The icthyofauna on CIMTCA exhibits a high endemic species occurrence, probably
_ around 17% of the approximately 300 species known on this Censervation Area
: (Bussing pers. comm. 1995). ,

Of all the componénts of the marine fauna of Isla del Coco, one of the most relevant i is.

the presence of coral reefs. The fringing reefs ate some of the more extensive and

richest of the Oriental Pacjfic (Guzman. & Cortés 1992-1993). The most important onés /

are located in Punta Maria, Punta Presidio, Punta Pacheco and some parts of Bahia

Yglesias and the Chatham and Wafer Bays (reefs in- recovery after the El Nifio -
: phenomenon). Some reef Species Present ai are e related to groups typical of the Indopacific,

‘
: .

, Cocos Nomination . a 7 : : _ Printed in banana fiber paper

 
