whose existence: in the Oriental Pacific i is known only at the, Cocos reefs and adjacent
areas. This grants the area a great biological and scientific importance. Punta Maria is
-Tepresentative of this type of habitat, as it shows a relatively high incidence of live coral
(Guzman & Cortés 1992-1993), :

:

A significant: percentage of the island’s coral reefs (to precise as yet) is related to the
marine faunas of the Central and Western Pacific, and in some cases, even to species from
the Indian ‘and the Red Seas (Guzman & Cortés 1992-1993). This is largely due to the .
‘fact that Cocos is the first point of terrestrial contact for the North Equatorial
Counter Current. It.has been argued that Cocos serves as a first settlement site for’
_ Marine organisms that have traveled through the 5000 km of the East Pacific Barrier, the
most extensive area of deep waters in the planet (Grigg’& Hey 1992). Organisms first .
. ‘settled in Cocog can later colonize other points of the Oriental -Pacific. This role as
. “distribution center” is a unique-feature of the CIMTCA, which is-precisely one ‘of the
particularities that gives the Island great biological and scientific value, contributing to the
conservation of evolutionary process in the South Oriental Pacific.

=
‘

b. History

Cocos island, the focal terrestrial point of the property, has been represented i in world
maps sincé 1542, when its existence was documented in a map by Nicolag Desliens, six

* years after Berlanga’ s discovery of the Galapagos. Cocos had been sighted by sailors as
early as 30 years after the Spanish arrived in America. However, indications to the exact -
location of the island varied from map to map, féeding the cloud of mystery that has
surrounded Cocos since its early history. *

Vaguely indicated-in maps, often surrounded by clouds, far from the mainland, Cocos.
~ could only be found by experienced sailors. Since the XVH century, their passage through ~
the island has been documented in books and wriften accounts. Fishermen, pirates, —
commercial’ sailors, treasure hunters and scientific expeditions arrived to the island _
searching fer fresh water and refuge. Silent witnesses of thesé visits are the numerous
inscriptions left on rocks at Chatham Bay, as. well as'the names given to some of the
island's locations: Wafer (a pirate surgeon), Dampier (an adventurer, whose life has been
the object of children stories and ‘novels), Chatham (from the name, of a vessel captained
by George Vancouver, which stopped at the island en route to Canada and which brought”
the first scientific expedition to Cocos).

ao ‘ : , ; '

-

Cocos Nomination ~ : “8 : ‘ Printed in banana fiber paper

 
